# FocusOfAttentionSAT

The focus of attention privileges a representation in working memory. This privilege is thought to result in greater accessibility of the most recently presented item in a Sternberg recognition task (recency benefit) as well as improved recognition performance when an item held in memory is retro-cued for an upcoming recognition task during the retention interval (retro-cue benefit). If both empirical phenomena result from the same mechanism of the focus of attention, the retro-cue benefit should be diminished for the most recently presented item. We report two experiments that merged the two procedures in order to test this hypothesis. We applied the response-signal speed-accuracy trade-off procedure to recognition tasks in which items were presented serially and in some trials a memory item was retro-cued during the retention interval. Participants were cued to immediately respond to a response signal which was presented at various times (deadlines) after probe onset. With increasing deadlines, participants move from a period of chance performance to a period of increasing accuracy before reaching an asymptotic level. Using Bayesian hierarchical modeling, we fitted the data with an exponential approach to a limit in order to measure three parameters that capture these periods: 1) an intercept that indicates the point of time when accuracy departs from chance, 2) the rate at which accuracy approaches the asymptote, and 3) the level of asymptotic accuracy. For non-cued trials, we found a benefit for the most recently presented item on the intercept. Moreover, all serial positions showed a retro-cue benefit on the intercept. Importantly, this benefit was not diminished for the most recently presented item, despite the fact that this item should be in the focus of attention already. These findings suggest that recency and retro-cue effects are not solely driven by the same mechanism of the focus of attention.
